Searching for online clients or jobs is scary enough, and the last thing you need whilst you're searching
for income is to be duped by a job posting that's actually a scam.
The bad news job scams are out there.
The good news with the tips that we're going to talk about in this video, you can avoid them altogether.
Number one, you never applied in the first place.
If you get a message that says something like, Want your resume and I can't wait to hire you, that's
not real.
It is very rare for recruiters or clients to to find you in a way that makes it sound like they have
your resume or they've looked at info or you've submitted info and some link.
That doesn't happen.
Well, it's not to say that clients won't reach out and say something more human and realistic, like,
Hi Erin, I'm looking for a virtual assistant and I came across your profile.
Are you open to work like that?
That's normal.
But somebody who says, I found your resume or thanks for submitting for this job when you didn't at
all.
This is definitely a scam.
Number two, the pay is way too good to be true.
Now sometimes you'll see a job listing that says something inane, like $100 an hour for virtual assistants.
And you might be thinking, that sounds great.
I would love to make one hundred dollars an hour.
Wouldn't we all?
But I want you to keep in mind that if it's something that's way outside of the realm of reality, like,
for example, most North American virtual assistants charge anywhere from 15 to 20 dollars.
If you're getting started, you can even charge 30 to 40 dollars if you're in a high demand, well-paying
niche.
So keep that in mind, because if you were somewhere in the 20 to 25 to 30 dollar range as an assistant
and then a job is offering you some stupid amount of money, it's probably not real.
Number three, your research isn't coming up with any results.
So if somebody reaches out to you claiming to be from some company and you Google their name you Google,
perhaps their email or you google their title or you Google the website and you're not really finding
a lot of results, or at least none of the websites really look that legit.
It's probably not.
Fortunately, nowadays, most companies and people have their own social media channels, their own
brands, their own websites.
So if your results aren't really coming up with anything viable, I want you to consider that a major
warning sign.
Number four, it's a very poorly written correspondence, so if you get a message from somebody and
it's riddled with mistakes, grammar mistakes, spelling mistakes, it's awkwardly worded or something
doesn't quite make sense.
That's a major major red flag as well.
That's because companies how we just went through the list and looked for job listings from companies.
Companies have people on their team that they pay writers H.R., people who are able to put together
a professional job posting.
And that posting is going to get run up the flagpole.
It's going to get approval from the bosses, from the CEO to make sure that it makes sense and that
they're trying to capture the right client.
So if you're if you're finding job posts that are not easy to understand or easy to read, or there's
just way too many awkward, unprofessional mistakes.
Major major red flag that this is not a legitimate listing.
Number five, super vague job description.
This has actually happened to me before.
You think you're talking to somebody real and then you ask, but they're looking for and they give you
a really vague job description.
Jobs, especially virtual assistants, should not be hard to understand.
A client should know what kind of work they're seeking.
But if you get somebody who says to you something like, Oh, well, you know, I just need you to do
admin work and you're like, OK, like what?
And they're like, you know, admin work and you're like, OK, but what specifically?
And they're like just the help of the CEO.
I know you can go in circles and circles in circles, but if they're not able to tell you specifically
the skills that they're looking for, the niche that they're in, the the the types of duties that they're
probably going to be giving to you major red flag that it's actually fake because they haven't actually
because they don't actually have a job to offer.
Number six, if a client or a recruiter from a job send you to a really weird looking website.
So most websites are legit.
You can tell that they're legit because they'll be a little luck icon in the upper hand corner that
already tells you that this is a secure, safe, real website.
If you're getting websites that are misspelled or just a little bit off, it might not be real or they
look kind of perfect, but they're not quite like, let's say, for example, somebody from Amazon wants
you to work for them as a virtual assistant, and they send you to a website that's like Amazon's assistant
dot com.
It's probably not real, or if they send you to something like Amazon a z dot com.
That's not Amazon's website.
So if it's a little bit off, if the website looks like it could be legit, but it's just a little bit
off, I want you to trust your gut and stay away from that particular link and job posting.
If number seven, this person has a generic email to, most clients will send you a message from their
branded email.
So if they have a website, if they have their own business, they're going to be sending you an email
that's like John at Apple.com.
It's rare nowadays that somebody will send you something from Gmail or Yahoo or AOL.
So if you are getting emails from potential clients or recruiters that are like one two three at yahoo.com,
probably not real major red flag particularly true if you're talking to a potential client and then
they're like, Hey, send me an email at Simpsons. Forever at AOL dot com.
No, just no.
Number eight, if a client asks you for an interview over a messaging service, I want you to run for
the hills.
That's so unprofessional.
No client in their right mind is not going to get on the phone or a video call with you.
Clients will never, almost never ask you to do an interview over WhatsApp over text messages over Gchat.
Can't even imagine doing an interview over text, but if somebody asks you to get on a messaging service
and wants to bypass some sort of chat software, this is so unprofessional.
No legitimate company or person is going to ask you to g chat your interview.
Number nine, if you send an application in or you send a pitch to a freelance client and they offer
you a job immediately, like there's no interview process, they just respond and they're like, Who?
You're hired?
Probably not real.
And that's because legitimate people and legitimate companies want to make sure that you're a good fit
for their company.
They'll want to get on the phone with you.
They want to discuss things like pay the job duties, your hours of operation.
No one, especially nowadays, is going to offer you a job sight unseen and right away.
If a potential client asks for anything like your Social Security number, your bank account details
any of your personal information, your address if they're asking for any of that in email or in the
very early stages of your interview process, that is a major, major red flag that this person is clearly
just fishing for your details or your bank account details.
So for example, if you meet Adam today on LinkedIn and Adam says, let's hop on a call and you do a
full interview with Adam and you guys decide that yes, you're a great fit and you would love to move
forward with one another.
And it is legit.
Adam, at some point will have to send you something like a W9 so that you can fill out your tax info
that's so that he can legally pay you.
I realize that what I just said is all relevant just to the United States.
But if you meet fake Adam and fake Adam gets on the phone with you, and before you even say, like,
Hey Adam, these are the services I offer and and this is how much I charge.
And he just says to you, really excited to work with you.
I need you to send me your bank account details so that I can.
To set up an autopay, probably not real, I need you to absolutely protect those details very closely
until you are assured that this is a real job, so nobody's going to ask you for your Social Security
number right away.
Nobody's going to ask you for banking details because no one needs those items whilst you're doing this
initial interview part.
So anything more than that is absolutely a job and by scam, by the way.
And if anything, that somebody is asking you makes you uncomfortable.
Don't feel pressured to give up any details if you're unsure.
Last but not least, and this is a really big one, you are asked to pay for something.
If anybody asks you to pay for equipment or they ask you to like, let's say you find a job like, let's
say a client says, I really want to send you a laptop, but I'm going to need you to pay for shipping
so I can actually get it to you.
That is a simple scam that is a simple cash grab and run away scam.
No reputable company or person is going to ask you to send money to mail something in fact on that vein
of thought.
No person is going to give you a laptop like you as a virtual assistant are definitely expected to have
your own laptop and phone and money to pay for your bills.
These are things that you, as a business owner, bring to the client to the company.
So if anybody's asking you to pay for something upfront, that is not real.
No, sir, no man.
Likewise, if anybody just says to you, Hey, really want to send you a phone so we can work together?
Probably not real, either.
So the simplest way to protect yourself is just to do your research.
If you find a client or a client, if a client reaches out to you about a job opportunity, Google their
name, Google, their company, Google, everything you can possibly Google, Google, their email find
anything that you can find about this person to make sure that they look like a legitimate and real
person and then get on the phone with them again on a video chat.
If they're not willing to do that, it's probably a scam.
If you do happen to come across a scam or heaven forbid, you fall for a scam and it happens.
Scammers are getting pretty, pretty smart nowadays.
Don't fret, I'm actually linking in this lecture and the Resource tab to three different websites where
you can report job scams.
You can report them to the Internet Crime Center.
The Better Business Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission.
So all three of these industries will want to know what scam is going on.
So definitely report it, then block that person on LinkedIn.
Don't even give them another thought.
Fortunately, like I said before, most jobs nowadays are legit on the internet, but it helps to know
the red flags to look for for scams to keep your eyes open.
Keep these tips in mind and then trust your gut as you are applying and pitching people for work.